Dear Phil,

I have since revised and submitted manuscript I08179. The
following lists changes made to the manuscript with some comments
on the reviews.

Reviewer 2 notes that the former manuscript ignored a particular
feature of the Lamy and Perrin (1986) volume scattering function.
Lamy and Perrin advocate a volume scattering function F that has
a slow dependence on heliocentric distance r via F(r)~r^(-nu_c)
where nu_c could be between 0.3-0.45. Although this feature is
now noted in a new paragraph of page 17, we still do not formally
apply this radial variation in the remainder the text. However we
do this only because we wish to compare our findings to those of
other studies that also neglect this possible variation of the
scattering function F with r. But page 17 also provides guidance
should the reader desire to include this radial variation in
F(r). As the text states, its main effect is to cause the dust
albedo a to acquire a heliocentric variation as a~r^(-nu_c). This
also alters the values of the power-law indices nu_j and the
integration constants in Eqs 10-13 in ways that depend upon the
particular choice of nu_c, but corrections for this effect are
really quite small.


Reviewer 1's chief complaint is with my estimate of the mass of
the Oort Cloud dust seen in the Clementine observations. The
reviewer also recommends further deletions of this discussion
from the paper. But I do not do this since I regard this
admittedly speculative interpretation of the data as my MOST
INTERESTING FINDING, and it shall remain in the paper. The former
manuscript also quoted an uncertainty of a factor of 500 in this
mass estimate, which the reviewer also disputes. While my
estimate of the uncertainty is also uncertain, it is
not in the millions as reviewer claims unless the reviewer truly
believes that this dust population could only reside in
orbits having aphelia confined to Q ~ a few AU, which the review
seems to suggest. However the manuscript does not entertain
this scenario since there are no known sources of spatially
isotropic dust that are confined to the inner solar system.
The *most plausible explanation* for the observed cloud of
isotropic dust is the one offered on pages 26-27, namely, that
these grains are liberated by sublimating
Oort Cloud comets. Since this dust gets injected into an orbits
similar to their parent comets, this means that this dust ranges
out to distance of $a~10^4$ AU where, after a few orbits around
the Sun, they are removed or destroyed by interstellar gas and
dust. The reviewer also states that it is
"probably impossible for many reasons including planetary
perturbations and collisions with interstellar dust" for this
cloud of Oort Cloud dust to extend out to Oort Cloud distances
of $a~10^4$ AU. Not only is the reviewer's claim incorrect, it
makes little sense. While I agree that interstellar gas
and dust do strip Oort Cloud dust from the solar system, this
only occurs after the dust orbit the Sun about 1-10 orbits (note
that arguments supporting this claim are given in version 1 of
this manuscript but were subsequently deleted at reviewer 1's
request). However planetary perturbations cannot possibly alter
a dust grain's orbit in this time interval. And since the dust
orbital lifetimes are in excess of one orbit period, they
consequently have the opportunity to travel out distances of
$a~10^4$ AU. My choice for the outer boundary of $a~10^4$ when
estimating the mass of the the Oort Cloud dust is thereby
justified. The text on pages 26-27 have been modified slightly
to make this point clearer. I have also modified pages 3, 27,
and 30 to vaguely state that this mass estimate is uncertain by
unspecified orders of magnitude. Hopefully this will be a happy
compromise.

The reviewer points out that Eqn 10 is only valid out to ~3.3 AU
where dust production ceases in the asteroid belt, and this is
now noted in the sentence following Eqn 10.

The reviewer also inquires about the fan model approximation for
Fig 14. A brief discussion of this approximation is now added to
the end of the first paragraph of page 23, which states that
this approximation is OK, but not particularly good. The
parameter for this model is k~1.5.

The reviewer also states "the authors claim that particles will
maintain their original orbital inclination distribution and
will not have it modified by the effect of planetary
perturbations." But we do not make any such claim. It was
already noted on page 20 that secular resonances do indeed pump
up dust inclinations by amounts that are size-dependent. But
the text then argues that the bulk of the light-reflecting dust
that we are sensitive to will suffer only modest
inclination-pumping in amounts that may be neglected. A
more accurate characterization of this manuscript would instead
state that our model ignores i-pumping by secular
resonances (but we certainly do not claim that this does not
happen!). The reviewer also notes that the planets' secular
perturbations causes warps in the dust midplane. However this
effect was already noted in the last paragraph of page 16.
This phenomenon can also cause inclination variations of a few
degrees (which the model also neglects), and an additional
statement to this effect has been added to the bottom of page 20.
