
Icarus Review Submission(11/23/01 at 11:32:25 CST)

MANUSCRIPT: I08179
AUTHORS: Hahn et al.
SHORT TITLE: Clementine observations of the Zodiacal light


 The reviewer wishes to remain anonymous.


REVIEW SUMMARY

 (a). Do you recommend that this manuscript be accepted for publication?
      No, except possibly after substantial revisions and
		 resubmission

 (b). The overall length of the text in this manuscript is: 
      NOT SELECTED

 (c). The amount of display material (tables and figures) is: 
      NOT SELECTED

COMMENTS FOR THE AUTHORS

   Referee report on "Clementine observations of the Zodiacal Light and
  Dust Content of the Inner Solar System" by J.M. Hahn, H.A. Zook, B.
  Cooper, and B Sunkara.
  
  The authors report on zodiacal light observations by the navigation
  camera onboard the Clementine spacecraft. The measurements cover the
  elongation range from 3 to 30 degrees while the moon occulted the sun.
  There were several instrumental difficulties to overcome in analysing
  the data: 1. The dynamic range in a single frame is only 256, but by
  varying the exposure time by a factor 14 the overall range was extended
  to 3600. 2. Because of the absence of a shutter the CCD was exposed
  also during read-out. This required a complex "destreaking" method. 3.
  A non-standard dark current subtraction needed to be applied to the
  data. 
  The data is then interpreted in terms of a radial and vertical dust
  distribution. In particular the vertical distribution is then fitted by
  3 orbital components of the interplanetary dust complex: dust from
  asteroids and short-period comets, dust from Halley-type comets, and
  dust from Oort-cloud comets.
  
  While the data analysis seems to be consistent, in light of the
  instrumental difficulties the results should be taken with great
  precautions. This is, because the result (p.15: "there is no
  forward-scattering light by dust that lies near the observer")
  contradicts most earlier work. Only after a careful comparison with
  other relevant data sets and a discussion of the differences, the
  results are believable. Relevant discussions are found in Leinert et
  al., A&A, 47, 221, 1976; Lamy and Perrin, A&A 163, 269, 1986, Mann,
  A&A, 261, 329, 1992 and other reports. Especially F-corana observations
  from SOHO provide crucial information that is relevant for this
  discussion.



