
Icarus Review Submission(11/09/01 at 17:43:15 CST)

MANUSCRIPT: I08179
AUTHORS: Hahn et al.
SHORT TITLE: Clementine observations of the Zodiacal light


 Reviewer: William T. Reach


REVIEW SUMMARY

 (a). Do you recommend that this manuscript be accepted for publication?
      Yes, but only after moderate revisions (supervised by the
		 editor)

 (b). The overall length of the text in this manuscript is: 
      Excessive (for what the authors have to say)

 (c). The amount of display material (tables and figures) is: 
      About right

COMMENTS FOR THE AUTHORS

   I have read the paper "Clementine Observations of the Zodiacal
  Light and the Dust Content of the Inner Solar System" in detail,
  and this comprises my report on its suitability for publication
  in Icarus. In this paper, the authors present an analysis of the
  data generated by a camera (on the Clementine spacecraft) that
  observed solar eclipses to obtain images of the inner zodiacal
  light. These data have languished for some time, and it is very
  good news that they have been brought to light. The analysis was
  challenging, and the authors appear to have done a good job in
  tackling this task. Specifically, the constrction of the mosaic
  Fig. 5, using data individual images from variouos viewing
  angles, is quite an achievment. 
  
  As these data were challenging to analyze, I do request that
  some more quantitative details be included, to add to the
  archival value of this paper as what may become the ultimate
  presentation of these data. In particular, despite the large
  figure showing the wavelength response calibration of the
  camera, there is only one figure giving the actual observed
  brightness (in radial profile). This could be easily corrected
  by adding scale bars to Figures 4 and 5, and perhaps by
  including another figure with a vertical brightness profile.
  
  I was confused by the derivation of the phase function from the
  data. This is mostly because the paper simply refers to the
  "recipe" of Hong (1985). I am familiar with this paper: it is a
  direct inversion of the brightness integral and it applies to
  data taken in the plane of symmetry of the dust cloud and with
  only a simple (power-law) radial variation. These are limiting
  (but reasonable to first order) assumptions that need to be
  explained. The authors should also explain how they did the
  inversion mathematically and how the errors were propagated. And
  it is very important that the phase function be compared to the
  previously-derived phase functions. Is it at all reasonable?
  
  In regard to the more theoretical parts of the paper, I am less
  enthusiastic. The authors have interpreted the observed
  brightness distribution of the zodiacal light in terms of a
  model with particles with distributions of orbital elements.
  Thus they skip the empirical step of determining the
  distribution in real space and jump directly to the phase space
  of orbital elements. It may have been worthwhile to derive the
  density distribution in regular x,y,z before going to the
  orbital elements, though it is not required. It would at least
  make the interpretation and comparison to other models more
  straightforward. The results of these observations should
  certainly be compared to the important works by Grun et al
  (1985) on the dust near the Earth, and Kelsall et al (1998) on
  the distribution of dust revealed by infrared observations. 
  
  The model, with separate components attributed to specific
  parent populations  for the dust, is reasonably well motivated
  but based on restrictive theoretical assumptions. It assumes no
  change in the inclination distribution from  the source, which
  is probably nt valid in detail. It is rigorously correct if the
  Poynting-Robertson effect and solar radiation pressure and
  gravity alone act on the particles, but for 3-body interactions
  with the planets it is not correct. The Oort Cloud, Kuiper Belt,
  and short-period comets all have different vertical
  distributions despite commonalities at the formation of the
  solar system. Even over shorter timescales, I expect a range of
  orbital inclinations induced by perturbations. Further,
  particles liberated from comets due to jet action from
  sublimating ice will enter orbits different from their parent
  comet.
  
  That being said, the connection to JFCs is interesting and
  potentially can connect the region that is being observed to the
  ~30 AU aphelion region,  but the dust production is certainly
  not uniform and mostly occurs in the inner solar system;
  transport mechanisms also act predominantly inward, so  the
  connection between the observed region and the outer solar
  system is weak. Also, obviously, comets with small eccentricity
  never enter the inner solar system and don't make many particles
  that do. Therefore, we can say absolutely nothing about the
  entire population. The extrapolation to Oort cloud, in
  particular, is ludicrous and should be deleted. Speculation
  about dust in the far outer solar system has no part in this
  paper
  
  There is one part of the paper that I object to, which is the
  estimate of the mass of the dust in the inner solar system.
  While this estimate may be something to mention briefly, it is
  completely unreliable and does not warrant mention in the
  abstract. Most of mass of interplanetary dust is from particles
  that are not observed. And even most of the mass of dust that
  visits the inner solar system is also from dust that was not
  observed by this experiment. There are two reasons. First, the
  dust density increases relatively slowly toward the sun, while
  the volume element in spherical coordintes goes as r^2. For a
  fan-like model, the mass is proportional to the outer radius
  raised to the 3-alpha power where alpha=1.3 is the power-law
  dependence of the dust density. My argument is in normal space;
  in terms of orbital elements the same conclusion will be reached
  beause there is more phase space for particles with orbits that
  do not enter the inner solar system that for those that do. The
  second reason that the mass estimate is unreliable is that
  visible zodiacal light observations are likely dominated by
  relatively small particles. The largest particles dominate the
  mass, and it is not clear whether the zodiacal light is
  domianted by such particles, which may have a different
  distribution than the visible observatiosn revealed. If any
  mention of a mass estimate is retained in this paper, it should
  be called the "mass of dust that makes the inner zodiacal light"
  and the caveats need to be spelled out.
  
  
  Below are some more minor, specific comments.
  
  IN THE ABSTRACT:
  "effective albedo": describe how obtained--the term has many meanings
  and
	  does not stand on its own
	  
  "asymmetries are seen": with respect to what?
  
  IN THE TEXT: Make clear that "latitude" is "heliocentric
  ecliptic latitude". This point can easily cause confusion and
  misinterpretation of the results presented here. "Latitude" my
  itself generally refers to the more common  observable
  quantities such as the geocentric ecliptic latitude (in
  astronomical usage).
  
  IN THE TABLES:
  Table II needs units
  
  IN THE FIGURES: add scale bars to the images so that the
  brightnesses can be assessed.
  
  Figure 12 is trivial and can be deleted
  
  Figure 10 should be included with Figure 11 into one figure with
  the same scale, so that htey can be compared directly and space
  can be saved by having a common x-axis.



