Dear Phil,

I have received the reviews of my manuscript #I08179,
"Clementine Observations of the Zodiacal Light and the Dust
Content of the Inner Solar System" by Hahn, Zook, Cooper, and
Sunkara, revised the manuscript accordingly, and uploaded it to
the Icarus website. I found these reviews quite useful since both
reviewers spotted several omissions in the original manuscript;
their comments have resulted in a revised manuscript that is
substantially improved. The new manuscript adopts nearly all of
the reviewers recommendations wherever appropriate. I
appreciate the time and effort the reviewers invested in this
paper.

The two principle changes made to the text are:
(1) The paper now considers two very different empirical
light-scattering phase laws, both of which are successful at
reproducing other zodiacal light observations like that studied
here. Nonetheless, the revised manuscript now shows that our
results are largely insensitive to the particulars of the
adopted phase law. (2) Additional comparisons are also made
between our findings and that obtained by previous studies of
IRAS and COBE observations of the zodiacal light. In all
instances the agreement between our findings and that of others
is good.

The following lengthy list details the reviewers comments and
criticisms of the manuscript, our response, and all changes made
to the manuscript.


REVIEW 1:

In the second paragraph of the reviewer's `comments' section the
reviewer requests that scale bars be added to Figs. 4-5. I have
since added a colorbar to the bottom of Fig. 5 to indicate the
map's surface brightness, and the Fig. 4 caption has additional
text indicating the range of intensities displayed in that
figure. The reviewer also requests adding a vertical surface
brightness profile, but this is already present in Fig. 8
(e.g, the curves labeled N and S are the North and South, aka,
vertical surface brightness profiles of the zodiacal light).

In the next paragraph the reviewer points out that our original
text used rather vague terms when describing how we constructed
the light scattering phase law [e.g, we used the `recipe' of Hong
(1985)]; this vague language has since been struck from the text.
As the caption to Fig. 7 now explains, we simply take the phase
law given in Hong (1985), which is only appropriate for a nu=1
dust radial power law, insert it into Hong's Eqs (10) and (14),
and then obtain a revised phase law that is now appropriate for
the nu=1.45 power law adopted by this work. We do not, as the
reviewer implies, perform a direct inversion of the brightness
integral---this is unnecessary as Hong already did this. 
The revised text on page 15 and in caption 7 provides additional
information on this phase law, and the reader is also referred to
the Hong (1985) paper if additional details are desired.

The reviewer also asks for the inclusion of other possible phase
laws and a discussion of their errors. The revised text on page
15 now includes a treatment of a second and very different phase
law constructed by Lamy and Perrin (1986), also shown in Fig. 7.
At the top of page 15 the revised text also notes that our
results (namely, Eqns. 3 and 4 and the modeling described
thereafter) are largely insensitive to the
choice of phase law aside from a factor of 1.6.
The text also assumes that the differences in these
two phase laws are representative of the uncertainty in the
`real' phase law, and this uncertain factor of 1.6 translates
into some additional uncertainty in the coefficient of Eq. (4).
As the top paragraph on page 16 explains, this added uncertainty
merely propagates into the uncertainty reported for the dust
albedo. The long and short of it is, using alternate phase laws
has no immediate effect on the modeling of the interplanetary
dust cloud beyond altering the inferred dust albedo (see
page 15).

In the next paragraph, the reviewer claims that we `skip the
empirical step of determining the (dust spatial)
distribution in real space and jump directly to the
phase space of orbital elements'. But this criticism is either
confused or in error, and after reading this
paragraph many times I still don't know which... Our
manuscript does not `skip a step' when relating the
distribution of the dust orbital elements to the dust spatial
distribution. As Section 4.2.1 clearly states, we begin with
the orbit elements of known dust sources (eg., asteroids
and comets) and compute the resulting dust spatial distribution
(or more precisely, the dust latitude distribution) using Eq.(6).
If we have indeed skipped a step anywhere, it might be by
providing Eq. (6) without derivation.  However we opt
not to include this derivation since it is
readily obtained from several other literature sources
[see references near Eq (6)], but also because this derivation,
though conceptually straightforward, is a bit laborious.
But to mitigate any confusion, the revised manuscript now
includes a new Fig. 14 showing how the inferred dust density
varies with the heliocentric cylindrical coordinates (x,z).

The reviewer also requests additional comparisons between
our results and that of Kelsall et al (1998) and Grun et al
(1985). In fact, our new Fig. 14 is constructed such that our
results can be directly compared to the Kelsall et al study of
the COBE observations of the zodiacal light. Page 22 now
describes that comparison in greater detail, where it is noted
that our results for the dust spatial distribution are
quite similar to that inferred by Kelsall et al, but that
there are also some minor differences that are likely due to
the rather different assumptions employed by both works. Page 22
also notes that our inferred dust inclination distribution is
rather similar to that obtained by Divine (1993), and page 16
notes that our inferred dust power law nu is similar (but not
identical) to that inferred by Leinert et al (1981) from Helios
observations and by Kelsall et al from COBE. Page 24 also
reports our upper limits on the cross-section and the mass of
asteroidal dust, and pages 24-25 shows that these upper limits
are also consistent with other measurements of the asteroidal
dust bands obtained by Grogan et al (2001) and Reach et al
(1997). In all instances where comparisons are possible, our
findings are in good agreement with the preceding studies of
Helios, IRAS, and COBE data.

The reviewer also recommends comparing our results to Grun et al
(1985), but that would be comparing apples and oranges. The
Grun et al work derives the *size* distribution of interplanetary
dust at one locale whereas our work seeks the *spatial*
distribution of dust throughout the inner solar system.
However we do apply the Grun et al results repeatedly in our
analysis---see pages 14, 20, 23, 24 and 26.

In the next paragraph the reviewer notes that real dust grains
are driven across resonances with the planets by
Poynting-Robertson drag, and that this can result in some
additional dust-size-dependent inclination excitation that is
not accounted for by our `static' dust model.
However the reader was already alerted to this in the last
paragraph of page 19, where we argue (but do not prove!)
that the bulk of the light-reflecting dust are sufficiently
small that this unmodeled phenomenon does not significantly alter
our results. The reader is also reminded of this issue in the
Conclusions (at the bottom of page 27) where we also recommend
using a more sophisticated `dynamic' dust model to obtain more
accurate results.

In the same paragraph the reviewer suggests that sublimation or
jetting by comets can insert dust into orbits that differ
from the parent comet. However this is a non-issue since cometary
dust ejection velocities are small compared to a comet's
orbital velocity, so the ejected dust enters an orbit very
similar to the parent comet.

In the next paragraph the reviewer notes that cometary dust
production varies with heliocentric distance. Note, however,
that our model already handles this (albeit in a rather
simplistic manner) by allowing the model's cometary dust
population to have an arbitrary radial power-law in its spatial
distribution---see the top of page 21. The reviewer also states
that `transport mechanisms also act predominantly inward, so the
connection between the observed region and the outer solar
system is weak'. But if the reviewer has identified a `weakness'
in our paper, I don't know what it is as I do not understand the
reviewer's point... The reviewer also notes that distant (e.g.,
low-eccentricity) comets do not get close enough to the Sun to
produce dust. But this also is a non-issue since we ignore such
comets. As stated at the bottom of page 18 and in the Fig. 10
caption, our model only considers source comets in orbits having
perihelia<2.5 AU which are presumably active dust-producing
comets; the model completely ignores distant, inactive comets.

The reviewer also claims that the extrapolation of our
results out to the Oort Cloud is `ludicrous' and that
'speculation about dust in the far outer solar system' should be
deleted. However we regard our findings on Oort Cloud dust to be 
speculative (rather than ludicrous!) but admittedly
uncertain by orders of magnitude, as is advertised
at the bottom of page 25. But this is also one of the more
interesting results from our analysis---we have evidence of dust
in orbits that may very well range out to Oort Cloud distances.
This has a fascinating implication (see pages 25-26), namely,
that the sun may reside at the center of a vast but tenuous
dust cloud that is ~10^4 AU across, and this dust cloud is likely
sculpted into dust tail of stellar dimensions by the local flow
of interstellar gas and dust. This is cool stuff. However we do
temper our enthusiasm somewhat by deleting almost three
paragraphs that used to detail the ultimate fate of Oort Cloud
dust.

In the next paragraph the reviewer gives numerous reasons
to label to our estimate of the mass of solar system dust as
`unreliable'. Although we concur with all of the reviewer's
statements, we feel that the `unreliable' label is unwarranted.
The reviewer also recommends identifying our mass estimate
with words like the `mass of the light-reflecting component',
but this was already done on page 24 (between Eqs. 11-12) and in
the conclusion near the bottom of page 28. All of the reviewer's
caveats and concerns about this estimate were already spelled
out in the original manuscript, so his objections on this point
seem overstated. The derivation of this mass estimate is quite
straightforward (page 24), and all of its inherent uncertainties
are identified in the text, so I actually regard our result as
quite reliable in the order-of-magnitude sense. The text on page
24-25 also compares our results to some IRAS and COBE estimates,
and all is in agreement. 

The middle of page 18 now defines the `effective' dust albedo as
the albedo that would be inferred if there were only a single
dust population.

The last paragraph of page 16 now states that the asymmetry
seen in the north/south surface brightness profiles are are with
respect to the ecliptic, and the east/west asymmetry is with
respect to the Sun.

The reviewer also notes that the word `latitude' has multiple
interpretations. The revised text now uses more specific terms
such as `heliocentric ecliptic latitude' or `geocentric ecliptic
latitude' wherever the meaning might be unclear.

Also, units are deliberately absent from Table II since all
of its quantities are dimensionless.

As noted above, an intensity scalebar has been added to Fig. 5
and the dynamic range of Fig. 4 is now described in the caption.

However we choose not to delete the former Fig. 12 (it is now
Fig. 11 in the new manuscript) since these contours illustrate
where on the sky the various dust sources are contributing to
the zodiacal light (eg, asteroidal dust stays near the ecliptic
while cometary dust is distributed to higher latitudes).

But we do combine the former Figs. 10 & 11 into a single Fig. 10
having a common x-axis.


Review II:

Thankfully this reviewer spotted our erroneous statement
(eg, "there is no forward light scattering by dust..."). We
originally made this claim due to our reliance upon the backward
scattering phase law of Hong (1985). But, as the reviewer notes,
there are also alternative light scattering functions.
The most useful reference suggested by the reviewer is
the Lamy and Perrin (1986) paper which derives a forward
scattering phase law for interplanetary dust. As was noted
above, the revised text at the top of page 15 now includes a
discussion of the Lamy and Perrin phase law that is also shown
in Fig. 7. The text also shows that our model of the
interplanetary dust cloud is largely insensitive to the
possible choice between a back scattering law like Hong's or a
forward scattering law like Lamy and Perrin. Rather, the
uncertainty associated with the particular phase law ultimately
propagates into an additional +/-30% uncertainty in the dust
albedo (see text below Eq. 5).


I thank both reviewers for their valuable input.

Regards,
Joe Hahn
LPI